Dr. John McLevey completed his Master's and PhD in Sociology at McMaster University (2013) and his Honours Bachelor's in Sociology and Political Science at Memorial University (2008). His work falls broadly under the umbrella of computational social science, with an emphasis on network science, probabilistic modelling, simulation (mainly emperically-calibrated agent-based models), and natural language processing / computational text analysis. His substantive research interests are in affect, cultural cognition, and identities; public opinion; and political and environmental sociology. He is passionate about interdisciplinary research and teaching, and in strenghening the connections between the social, cognitive, statistical / computational, and environmental sciences. 

John is currently working on a SSHRC-funded project called "Disinformation, Democracy, and Online Political Deliberation" (2020 – 2025). He is also involved in a number of collaborative projects with colleagues throughout Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, Italy, and Germany. He is the author of *Doing Computational Social Science* (Sage, UK, 2021) and a co-author of Industrial Development and Eco-Tourisms: Is Co-Existence Possible Between Oil Exploration and Nature Conservation (with Mark Stoddart and Alice Mattoni, Palgrave MacMillan, 2021). You can learn more about John’s research by visiting the webpage for his research lab, Netlab.

Finally, Dr. McLevey co-runs (and loves to talk about) a program called Science Outside the Lab North. It’s an intensive course in Science Policy offered twice a year in Ottawa and Montreal.

In the Department of Knowledge Integration, John primarily teaches “The Art & Science of Learning” (INTEG 120), “Research Design and Methods” (INTEG 340), “Computational Social Science” (INTEG 440/640), and “Bullshit, Bias, and Bad Arguments” (INTEG 240). 

Outside the office, John is passionate about photography, hiking, squash, basketball, podcasts, cooking, coffee, and cats.